Add security policy (#1385)
astronomer/astronomer-cosmos: SECURITY.rst

Reviewer: Recommend changing lines 71-74 to: "Follow-on communications to disclosures sent to oss_security@astronomer.io will be handled on a best-case effort, often within 3-5 business days. If the disclosure involves a product or repository that is instead covered by Astronomer's use of the Bugcrowd Vulnerability Disclosure Platform, please see Bugcrowd's terms of service for follow-on communication timelines. Disclosures to the Bugcrowd Vulnerability Disclosure Platform will result in communications being managed through that platform."

Security
________

This document contains information on how to report security vulnerabilities in Astronomer Cosmos and
how security issues reported to the Astronomer security team are handled.

> If you would like to learn more, please refer to `https://www.astronomer.io/security/ <https://www.astronomer.io/security/>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you would like to learn more, refer to `https://www.astronomer.io/security/ <https://www.astronomer.io/security/>`_.
```

At Astronomer, we recognize the critical nature of security and view it as a transparent and collaborative effort.

> If you have any concern around the security of any Astronomer public repository or believe you have uncovered a vulnerability,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have any concern about the security of any Astronomer public repository, or believe you have uncovered a vulnerability,
```

please email `oss_security@astronomer.io <mailto:oss_security@astronomer.io>`_.

.. warning::

>     Note: Due to the nature of some security vulnerabilities, we ask that you not create a GitHub issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Note: Due to the nature of some security vulnerabilities, do not create a GitHub issue to report a vulnerability.
```

Use of Email for Vulnerability Disclosure
=========================================

> Only use the above email to disclose security vulnerabilities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Only use the OSS security email to disclose security vulnerabilities.
```

> We do not accept bug reports, security implementation questions or other security-related issues at this email address.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Astronomer does not accept bug reports, security implementation questions, or other security-related issues at this email address.
```

If you are a customer of Astronomer, please reach out to your account team if you have any security-related questions or
issues other than vulnerabilities, and they can assist you. Otherwise, this codebase is provided ‘as-is’ in accordance
with its licensing structure.

Scope
=====

> When submitting vulnerabilities, please ensure that it is within scope. Out of scope will be ignored.

Reviewer 2: Within scope of what? The project? The tool? I think this might need one more word.

Author: In and out of scope based on the definitions below.

> When submitting vulnerabilities, please ensure that it is within scope. Out of scope will be ignored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When submitting vulnerabilities, please ensure that it is within the scope of the project. Out-of-scope vulnerability reports will be ignored.
```

In-scope
........

* Code base with tagged releases
* When integrated as specified in the `official Astronomer Cosmos documentation <https://astronomer.github.io/astronomer-cosmos/>`_.

Out-of-scope
............

> * Any other codebase, including Astronomer products

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Any other codebase, including other Astronomer products
```

* Astronomer.io website
* Dependencies used in Astronomer Cosmos

> * Astronomer Cosmos when modified or run using a not intended configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Astronomer Cosmos when modified or run using an unintended configuration
```

* Other systems integrated with or CSP systems hosting the deployment
* Cookie transfers between browsers

For other products and repositories owned by Astronomer, please refer to their specific security policy or to
`https://www.astronomer.io/vulnerability-disclosure/ <https://www.astronomer.io/vulnerability-disclosure/>`_ for
vulnerabilities associated with Astronomer products.

> What information and how to disclose
> ====================================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Required information and how to disclose
====================================
```

> Please send a single, plain-text (not HTML) email for each vulnerability you are reporting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please send a single, plain-text (not HTML) email for each vulnerability you report.
```

> At a minimum, it should include the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At a minimum, the report must include the following:
```

* Brief description/title of the vulnerability
* Steps to recreate the issue
* Contact information

Upon review, we may request additional information including, but not limited to, images or a proof-of-concept video.

Severity
========

The vulnerability severity rating system used internally by Astronomer is not the same as the one used by the Apache Foundation.
Please do not provide a severity for the vulnerability when disclosing, however, providing a CWE (Common Weakness Enumeration) is recommended.

> Follow-on Communication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow-up Communication
```

=======================

> Because Astronomer uses the BugCrowd Vulnerability Disclosure Platform, communication occurs through this program.
> In order for a vulnerability to be claimed and to enable follow-on communication, it is necessary that the vulnerability
> discoverer claim the vulnerability in the BugCrowd Vulnerability Disclosure Platform.
> This will be done through the vulnerability discoverer’s account in the BugCrowd Vulnerability Disclosure Platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Astronomer uses the BugCrowd Vulnerability Disclosure Platform for disclosures and follow-up communication.
In order for the discoverer to claim a vulnerability report and to enable follow-up communication from Astronomer, the discoverer must claim the vulnerability in the BugCrowd Vulnerability Disclosure Platform.
Follow-up communication and claims go through the vulnerability discoverer’s account in the BugCrowd Vulnerability Disclosure Platform.
```

Response Timeframe
==================

> We aim to acknowledge and validate disclosures within 5 business days. Resolutions will be provided in a timely manner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Astronomer aims to acknowledge and validate disclosures within 5 business days. Resolutions will be provided in a timely manner.
```

* After notification of Astronomer and the lapse of the 90 day period, it is requested that any publications, third-party releases, or other disseminations of information related to or derived from the vulnerability discovery be coordinated with Astronomer prior.

Right to rescind safe harbor protections
========================================

Astronomer reserves the right to rescind any and all safe harbor protections originally extended to the vulnerability
discoverer in the event that the discoverer, at any point prior to or after notification to Astronomer,
has knowingly and willfully released, published, or otherwise used information related to the discovered vulnerability in a manner that:

1. Maligns or damages the reputation of Astronomer, its customers, or its employees;
2. Is used to conduct malicious attacks against Astronomer systems, regardless of whether material damages occur; or
3. Exacerbates existing vulnerabilities or threats, thereby increasing the risk to Astronomer or its stakeholders.

Extension of safe harbor to third-party systems and services
============================================================

> Astronomer systems and services may be interconnected with third-party systems and services.
> If you submit a report through our vulnerability disclosure program that affects a third-party service,
> we will limit what we share with the affected third party.
> Please understand that, while we can authorize your research on Astronomer’s systems and services,
> we cannot authorize your efforts on third-party products or guarantee they won’t pursue legal action against you.
> That said, if legal action is initiated by a third party against you because of your participation in this vulnerability
> disclosure program, and you have complied with our vulnerability disclosure policy, we will take steps to make it known
> that your actions were conducted in compliance with this policy.
> This is not, and should not be understood as, any agreement on our part to defend, indemnify, or otherwise protect you
> from any third-party action based on your actions.
> 
> You are expected, as always, to comply with all applicable laws.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Astronomer systems and services can interconnect with third-party systems and services.
If you submit a report that affects a third-party service through the `vulnerability disclosure program <https://www.astronomer.io/vulnerability-disclosure/>`_,
Astronomer will limit what we share with the affected third party.
Please understand that, while we can authorize your research on Astronomer’s systems and services,
we cannot authorize your efforts on third-party products or guarantee they won’t pursue legal action against you.
If legal action is initiated by a third party against you because of your participation in this vulnerability
disclosure program, and you have complied with our vulnerability disclosure policy, we will take steps to make it known
that your actions were conducted in compliance with this policy.
This is not, and should not be understood as, any agreement on Astronomer's part to defend, indemnify, or otherwise protect you
from any third-party action based on your actions.

You are expected, as always, to comply with all applicable laws.
```

Reviewer 2: I can never figure out the linebreaks with .rst - please adjust the spacing as you see fit!

with its licensing structure.

Scope
=====

When submitting vulnerabilities, please ensure that it is within the scope of the project, based on the following descriptions. Out-of-scope vulnerability reports will be ignored.

In-scope
........

* Code base with tagged releases
* When integrated as specified in the `official Astronomer Cosmos documentation <https://astronomer.github.io/astronomer-cosmos/>`_.

Out-of-scope
............

* Any other codebase, including other Astronomer products
* Astronomer.io website
* Dependencies used in Astronomer Cosmos
* Astronomer Cosmos when modified or run using an unintended configuration
* Other systems integrated with or CSP systems hosting the deployment
* Cookie transfers between browsers

For other products and repositories owned by Astronomer, please refer to their specific security policy or to
`https://www.astronomer.io/vulnerability-disclosure/ <https://www.astronomer.io/vulnerability-disclosure/>`_ for
vulnerabilities associated with Astronomer products.

Required information and how to disclose
====================================

Please send a single, plain-text (not HTML) email for each vulnerability you report.

> At a minimum, the report must include the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Your written description of the vulnerability is a critical part of the initial report. You can optionally include images and videos in your initial report, but the written description of the vulnerability must includes the following information, at a minimum:
```

@tatiana - instead of adding after the list, lets put it before it. Makes the wording a little easier.

* Brief description/title of the vulnerability
* Steps to recreate the issue
* Contact information

> Upon review, we may request additional information including, but not limited to, images or a proof-of-concept video.

Author: ```suggestion
The initial report may optionally contain images and videos as long as the textual vulnerability description is self-sufficient.

Upon review, we may request additional information, including, but not limited to, images or a proof-of-concept video.
```

..

>    [important] This document is reused across Astronomer OSS Integrations projects, any changes should also be applied in the other repositories

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   [important] This document is reused across Astronomer OSS Integrations projects, any changes should also be applied to security docs in the other repositories
```

Security
________

This document contains information on how to report security vulnerabilities in Astronomer Cosmos and
how security issues reported to the Astronomer security team are handled.
If you would like to learn more, refer to `https://www.astronomer.io/security/ <https://www.astronomer.io/security/>`_.

At Astronomer, we recognize the critical nature of security and view it as a transparent and collaborative effort.
If you have any concern about the security of any Astronomer public repository, or believe you have uncovered a vulnerability,
please email `oss_security@astronomer.io <mailto:oss_security@astronomer.io>`_.

.. warning::
    Due to the nature of some security vulnerabilities, do not create a GitHub issue to report a vulnerability.

Use of Email for Vulnerability Disclosure
=========================================

> Only use the OSS security email to disclose security vulnerabilities.

Reviewer 3: I'd suggest to use private Github reporting exclusively (and not use email). In the foundation we were exploring it and because of multi-team organisation setup of the ASF we found it not-yet-good-for-us (mainly about automation of notifications of new issues to respective PMCs), but it should be good if you have a centralized place to receive notifications about security issues in Astronomer (and it's WAY more convenient to organise your security issue handling). 

See https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories/guidance-on-reporting-and-writing-information-about-vulnerabilities/privately-reporting-a-security-vulnerability

Reviewer: @potiuk Our longer-term goal in Astronomer is to unify all vulnerability disclosures for any of our products, repos, etc, to use the Bugcrowd platform we have adopted (https://www.astronomer.io/vulnerability-disclosure/). Due more to internal organizational structure, etc, an email helps us more closely align and consolidate processes until we expand adoption of our larger VDP.

Reviewer 3: Understood. More or less same reason why ASF have not yet moved to private Github reporting.

Author: Thanks, @potiuk , for the feedback and @chaosmaw, for leading this initiative in Astronomer. It's very exciting we're heading towards the same approach in the mid-term.

Astronomer does not accept bug reports, security implementation questions, or other security-related issues at this email address.
If you are a customer of Astronomer, please reach out to your account team if you have any security-related questions or
issues other than vulnerabilities, and they can assist you. Otherwise, this codebase is provided ‘as-is’ in accordance
with its licensing structure.

Scope
=====

> When submitting vulnerabilities, please ensure that it is within the scope of the project. Out-of-scope vulnerability reports will be ignored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When submitting vulnerabilities, please ensure that it is within the scope of the project, based on the following descriptions. Out-of-scope vulnerability reports will be ignored.
```

In-scope
........

* Code base with tagged releases
* When integrated as specified in the `official Astronomer Cosmos documentation <https://astronomer.github.io/astronomer-cosmos/>`_.

Out-of-scope
............

* Any other codebase, including other Astronomer products
* Astronomer.io website
* Dependencies used in Astronomer Cosmos
* Astronomer Cosmos when modified or run using an unintended configuration
* Other systems integrated with or CSP systems hosting the deployment
* Cookie transfers between browsers

For other products and repositories owned by Astronomer, please refer to their specific security policy or to
`https://www.astronomer.io/vulnerability-disclosure/ <https://www.astronomer.io/vulnerability-disclosure/>`_ for
vulnerabilities associated with Astronomer products.

Required information and how to disclose
====================================

Please send a single, plain-text (not HTML) email for each vulnerability you report.
At a minimum, the report must include the following:

* Brief description/title of the vulnerability
* Steps to recreate the issue
* Contact information

> Upon review, we may request additional information including, but not limited to, images or a proof-of-concept video.

Reviewer 3: You might want to accept them without additional request. It's ok to have "Videos" / "images etc. in the initial report but only if the text is also describing the issue.

Severity
========

> The vulnerability severity rating system used internally by Astronomer is not the same as the one used by the Apache Foundation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The vulnerability severity rating system used internally by Astronomer is not the same as the one used by the Apache Software Foundation.
```

Reviewer 3: BTW. I am not sure you should refer to Foundation - the severity rating in the Foundation is rather specific to the Foundation, most of the places just accep CVSS scores and maybe you should do the same  - and not refer to the Foundation rating at all, it's pretty strange to see Foundation mentioned in Astronomer's product :)

Reviewer 3: For example here  you have CVSS calculator https://www.first.org/cvss/calculator/3.0. Foundation's team chose not to use CVSS mostly because it is not applicable for "Open Source steward" kind of governance, but it should be ok for you.

Reviewer: @potiuk We have an internal severity calculation and prioritization process we are implementing in Astronomer. I think CVSS is still severely lacking in many areas for any organization to use to determine the severity and priority with which they should address vulnerabilities. The main reason we are citing ASF's policy is that we do get a fair amount of asks from customers who raise ASF Airflow issues expecting us to address them, and I am simply trying to distinguish the entities involved here.

Reviewer 3: Understood. And yes if you have your own system, CVSS has a lot of shortcomings - mainly it lacks to add context to the  assesment - in many cases even very hihg CVSS does not mean that it can be easily exploited or that even exploiting a vulnerability can make a lot of harm.

FYI - in case you were not aware, this is the blog post where ASF security team explains the rating system we use https://security.apache.org/blog/severityrating/. Also from the experience, having such a description explicitly (and publicly) stated so that you can refer to it when you respond to security reports is really useful thing to have, because more often than not security reporters WILL use CVSS and will complain (even sometimes complain to the CVE bodies) when your rating is not what they expect and they do not know the criteria.

Please do not provide a severity for the vulnerability when disclosing, however, providing a CWE (Common Weakness Enumeration) is recommended.

Response Timeframe
==================

Astronomer aims to acknowledge and validate disclosures within 5 business days. Resolutions will be provided in a timely manner.

Follow-up Communication
=======================

> Astronomer will handle the disclosures sent to `oss_security@astronomer.io <mailto:oss_security@astronomer.io>`_ on a best-case effort,
> usually replying using the same tool.
> 
> If the disclosure involves an Astronomer product or repository covered by the BugCrowd Vulnerability Disclosure Platform,
> the terms and timeframes may differ and the communication will happen via Bugcrowd.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Astronomer handles follow-up communications to disclosures sent to [oss_security@astronomer.io](mailto:oss_security@astronomer.io) on a best-case effort, often within 3-5 business days. If the disclosure involves a product or repository that is covered by Astronomer's use of the Bugcrowd Vulnerability Disclosure Platform, please see Bugcrowd's terms of service for follow-up communication timelines. Disclosures to the Bugcrowd Vulnerability Disclosure Platform will result in communications through that platform.
```

@chaosmaw  -> is this what your comment was suggesting the changes to?

Reviewer: Yes.
